Update SDK readme with native authentication content (#2051)
AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-android: README.md

# Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) for Android

| Documentation                  | Sample Code               | Library Reference | Support |
|-------------------------------|---------------------------|-------------------|---------|
| [MSAL Android documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/msal/android/) | &#8226;  [Microsoft Entra ID (workforce samples)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/sample-v2-code?tabs=apptype#mobile)<br/>&#8226; [Microsoft Entra External ID (customer samples)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/external-id/customers/samples-ciam-all?tabs=apptype#mobile)          | [ MSAL Android reference](http://javadoc.io/doc/com.microsoft.identity.client/msal)              | [Get support](README.md#community-help-and-support)     |

## Overview

> MSAL Android is a library that enables Android applications to authenticate users with Microsoft identity platform and access protected web APIs using OAuth2 and OpenID Connect protocols.  The Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) for Android enables developers to acquire security tokens from the Microsoft identity platform to authenticate users and access secure web APIs for their Android based applications.

Reviewer: The Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL)

> MSAL Android is a library that enables Android applications to authenticate users with Microsoft identity platform and access protected web APIs using OAuth2 and OpenID Connect protocols.  The Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) for Android enables developers to acquire security tokens from the Microsoft identity platform to authenticate users and access secure web APIs for their Android based applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) for Android enables developers to acquire security tokens from the Microsoft identity platform using OAuth2 and OpenID Connect protocol to authenticate users and access secure web APIs for their Android based applications.
```

# Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) for Android

| Documentation                  | Sample Code               | Library Reference | Support |
|-------------------------------|---------------------------|-------------------|---------|
| [MSAL Android documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/msal/android/) | &#8226;  [Microsoft Entra ID (workforce samples)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/sample-v2-code?tabs=apptype#mobile)<br/>&#8226; [Microsoft Entra External ID (customer samples)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/external-id/customers/samples-ciam-all?tabs=apptype#mobile)          | [ MSAL Android reference](http://javadoc.io/doc/com.microsoft.identity.client/msal)              | [Get support](README.md#community-help-and-support)     |

## Overview

> The Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) for Android is an auth SDK that can be used to seamlessly integrate authentication into your apps using industry standard OAuth2 and OpenID Connect protocols. It allows you to sign in users or apps with Microsoft identities. These identities include Microsoft Entra ID work and school accounts, personal Microsoft accounts, social accounts, and customer accounts.

Reviewer 2: Given that the section below talks about "native authentication", should it be mentioned here that this refers to browser delegated flows? 
Or alternatively, the native auth section should highlight what native is as compared to non-native, i.e. browser delegated scenarios. Imagine you're a developer with limited auth domain-knowledge; I find the current text limiting in explaining to me what the difference is between native and non-native.

Author: Thanks @SammyO. I've added some clarity in the native auth section and pointed to the Learn docs for a decision guide/more info.

The Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) for Android enables developers to acquire security tokens from the Microsoft identity platform using OAuth2 and OpenID Connect protocol to authenticate users and access secure web APIs for their Android based applications. The library supports multiple authentication scenarios such as single sign-on (SSO), Conditional Access, and brokered authentication

## Native authentication support in MSAL

> MSAL Android also provides native authentication APIs that allow applications to implement a native experience with end-to-end customizable flows in their mobile applications. With native authentication, users are guided through a rich, native, mobile-first sign-up and sign-in journey without leaving the app. The native authentication feature is only available for mobile apps on [External ID for customers](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/external-id/customers/concept-native-authentication).

Reviewer 3: We can clarify that MSAL Android uses native authentication APIs instead of stating that MSAL Android provides native authentication APIs.

> [![Version Badge](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.microsoft.identity.client/msal.svg)](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/microsoft/identity/client/msal/)

Reviewer 2: This should be at the top of the file IMO

## Getting started

To use MSAL Android in your application, you need to register your application in the Microsoft Entra Admin center and configure your Android project. Since MSAL Android supports both browser-delegated and native authentication experiences, follow the steps in the following tutorials based on your scenario.

> * For browser-delegated authentication scenarios, refer to the quickstart, [Sign in users and call Microsoft Graph from an Android app](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/quickstart-mobile-app-android-sign-in).

Reviewer 2: Some conceptual feedback: why are we repeating instructions here that are already documented in learn.microsoft.com? 
I understood from @kaushikkislay  that there's a push to have all developer journeys start on learn.microsoft.com, and if/where they start elsewhere (like Github) to guide them to learn.microsoft.com.

Author: Appreciate your feedback here.

In this SDK readme, we've updated the previous content to ensure it includes native auth capabilities. The content, like other SDKs, includes an overview of the SDK, installation steps, and getting started guidance.  And for the most part, we're pointing developers to content on MS Learn, and leading them to where they'll find different pieces of content they'd need based on their scenarios. 

I'd be happy to cut down some sections and replace with equivalent links to MS Learn if we all agree to take this approach.

> * For native authentication scenarios, refer to the Microsoft Entra External ID sample guide, [Run Android Kotlin sample app](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/external-id/customers/tutorial-native-authentication-prepare-android-app).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* For native authentication scenarios, refer to the Microsoft Entra External ID sample guide, [Tutorial: Prepare your Android app for native authentication](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/external-id/customers/tutorial-native-authentication-prepare-android-app).
```

| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Documentation                  | Sample Code               | Library Reference | Support |
|-------------------------------|---------------------------|-------------------|---------|
| [MSAL Android documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/msal/android/) | &#8226;  [Microsoft Entra ID (workforce samples)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/sample-v2-code?tabs=apptype#mobile)<br/>&#8226; [Microsoft Entra External ID (customer samples)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/external-id/customers/samples-ciam-all?tabs=apptype#mobile)          | [ MSAL Android reference](http://javadoc.io/doc/com.microsoft.identity.client/msal)              | [Get support](README.md#community-help-and-support)     |

## Introduction

> The Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) for Android enables developers to acquire security tokens from the Microsoft identity platform to authenticate users and access secured web APIs for their Android based applications.

Reviewer 4: In the past we have always been the term 'tokens' and not 'security tokens'. Is there a reason we are writing security token here?

> The Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) for Android is an auth SDK that can be used to seamlessly integrate authentication into your apps using industry standard OAuth2 and OpenID Connect protocols. It allows you to sign in users or apps with Microsoft identities. These identities include Microsoft Entra ID work and school accounts, personal Microsoft accounts, social accounts, and customer accounts.

Reviewer 4: to stay consistent across all docs, we should make it -> Microsoft personal accounts.

> The Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) for Android enables developers to acquire security tokens from the Microsoft identity platform using OAuth2 and OpenID Connect protocol to authenticate users and access secure web APIs for their Android based applications. The library supports multiple authentication scenarios such as single sign-on (SSO), Conditional Access, and brokered authentication.

Reviewer 4: In the past we have always been the term 'tokens' and not 'security tokens'. Is there a reason we are writing security token here?

Author: No specific reason per se, we could keep the usage of "tokens" to maintain consistency.

> The Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) for Android enables developers to acquire security tokens from the Microsoft identity platform using OAuth2 and OpenID Connect protocol to authenticate users and access secure web APIs for their Android based applications. The library supports multiple authentication scenarios such as single sign-on (SSO), Conditional Access, and brokered authentication.

Reviewer 4: Can we please add relevant links to Android related SSO, CA and brokered auth pages?

Author: Added, SSO and brokered auth content for MSAL Android is in the same article.

#### Native authentication support in MSAL

MSAL Android also enables you to implement a native authentication experience with end-to-end customizable flows in mobile applications. With native authentication, users are guided through a rich, native, mobile-first sign-up and sign-in journey without leaving the app. The native authentication feature is only available for mobile apps on [External ID for customers](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/external-id/customers/concept-native-authentication). 

> When implementing authentication for mobile apps on External ID, you can choose between browser-delegated authentication and native authentication. In browser-delegated authentication, users are taken to the browser for authentication and then redirected back to the app when the sign-in process is complete. Learn how you can [choose the right authentication option](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/external-id/customers/concept-native-authentication#when-to-use-native-authentication) for your mobile app. 

Reviewer 4: The link is for Native Authentication and not for the External Id landing page.

Author: Sure, @negoe. This was the intended destination as we have a table that compares the two authentication methods and could serve as a decision guide. Thoughts on this?

## Overview

The Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) for Android is an auth SDK that can be used to seamlessly integrate authentication into your apps using industry standard OAuth2 and OpenID Connect protocols. It allows you to sign in users or apps with Microsoft identities. These identities include Microsoft Entra ID work and school accounts, Microsoft personal accounts, social accounts, and customer accounts.

The Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) for Android enables developers to acquire tokens from the Microsoft identity platform using OAuth2 and OpenID Connect protocol to authenticate users and access secure web APIs for their Android based applications. The library supports multiple authentication scenarios such as [single sign-on](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/msal/android/single-sign-on) (SSO), brokered authentication, and [Conditional Access](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/developer-guide-conditional-access-authentication-context).

#### Native authentication support in MSAL

> By default, MSAL uses the standard, browser-delegated authentication flow where you rely on the user's browser to handle the sign-in experience. This browser-based experience is the default authentication method for work and school accounts as well as personal Microsoft accounts.

Reviewer 4: Could we begin by discussing the default support provided by MSAL at a high level, and then divide the content into two distinct categories for browser-delegated and native authentication? The first paragraph under the Native Authentication heading is informative, but it should be positioned outside of this section for better clarity. Also it will align with your content below regarding App configuration. 

**Example**: 
Understanding Authentication User Experience in MSAL
MSAL primarily employs the standard, authentication flow, which leverages the user's browser to manage the sign-in experience. This approach is the default authentication method for both work and school accounts, as well as Microsoft personal accounts.

H1: Browser-Delegated Authentication : add your content
H2: Native authentication : add your content

Then provide link to choosing the appropriate authentication method.

> To support Microsoft Entra External ID scenarios, MSAL Android now offers Native authentication that allows you to customize the sign-in experiences within your mobile app. With native authentication, users are guided through a rich, native, mobile-first sign-up and sign-in journey without leaving the app. The native authentication feature is only available for mobile apps on [External ID for customers](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/external-id/customers/concept-native-authentication). 

Reviewer 4: nit: The native authentication feature is only available for mobile apps **using** External ID for customers.

### Step 1: Declare dependency on MSAL

Add the following dependencies to your app's build.gradle:

```java
dependencies {
implementation 'com.microsoft.identity.client:msal:5.1.0'
}
maven {
            url 'https://pkgs.dev.azure.com/MicrosoftDeviceSDK/DuoSDK-Public/_packaging/Duo-SDK-Feed/maven/v1'
            name 'Duo-SDK-Feed'
        }
```

### Step 2: Create your MSAL configuration file

**Browser-delegated authentication:**

> It's simplest to create your configuration file as a "raw" resource file in your project resources. You'll be able to refer to this using the generated resource identifier when constructing an instance of PublicClientApplication. If you are registering your app in the Microsoft Entra admin center for the first time, you will also be provided with the detailed MSAL [Android configuration file](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/msal/android/msal-configuration)

Reviewer 3: I'm recommending we stay from the word "simplest". May be we can use something along "
Create your configuration file as a "raw" resource in your project. Refer to it using the generated resource identifier when constructing a PublicClientApplication instance."

Author: good call out here, thanks!

### Step 1: Declare dependency on MSAL

Add the following dependencies to your app's build.gradle:

> ```java

Reviewer 2: Indentation is a bit off here.

> ```java

Reviewer 2: This is gradle, not Java.

dependencies {
implementation 'com.microsoft.identity.client:msal:5.1.0'
}

> maven {

Reviewer 2: Let's identify this as gradle (```gradle)

            url 'https://pkgs.dev.azure.com/MicrosoftDeviceSDK/DuoSDK-Public/_packaging/Duo-SDK-Feed/maven/v1'
            name 'Duo-SDK-Feed'
        }
```

### Step 2: Create your MSAL configuration file

**Browser-delegated authentication:**

Create your configuration file as a "raw" resource in your project. Refer to it using the generated resource identifier when constructing a `PublicClientApplication` instance. If you're registering your app in the Microsoft Entra admin center for the first time, you'll also be provided with the detailed MSAL [Android configuration file](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/msal/android/msal-configuration)

> ```javascript

Reviewer 2: This is JSON, not JavaScript.

### Step 1: Declare dependency on MSAL

Add to your app's build.gradle:
Add the following dependencies to your app's build.gradle:

```gradle
dependencies {

>     implementation 'com.microsoft.identity.client:msal:4.9.+'

Reviewer 4: Please add a note for customer to utilize latest version by going to the release page. We sometimes dont update readme with every single major release.

Author: Great call-out here, thanks!

}
```

**Native authentication:**

```java
dependencies {
implementation 'com.microsoft.identity.client:msal:5.1.0'
}
maven {
            url 'https://pkgs.dev.azure.com/MicrosoftDeviceSDK/DuoSDK-Public/_packaging/Duo-SDK-Feed/maven/v1'
            name 'Duo-SDK-Feed'
        }
```

> 

Reviewer: This is required for integrating with MSAL and is not specific to any flow.

Author: Thanks for the call out @iamgusain. I'm updating it.

}
```

In the `redirect_uri`, the `<YOUR_PACKAGE_NAME>` refers to the package name returned by the `context.getPackageName()` method. This package name is the same as the [`application_id`](https://developer.android.com/studio/build/application-id) defined in your `build.gradle` file.

The values above are the minimum required configuration.  MSAL relies on the defaults that ship with the library for all other settings.  Please refer to the [MSAL Android configuration file documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/msal/android/msal-configuration) to understand the library defaults.

**Native authentication:** 

1. Right-click res and choose New > Directory. Enter raw as the new directory name and select OK.
1. In this new folder (app > src > main > res > raw), create a new JSON file called auth_config_native_auth.json and paste the following template MSAL Configuration:

> ```

Reviewer 2: If you mark this as JSON (```json), it will enable syntax highlighting.

    </activity>
```

>NOTE: Please refer to the [MSAL Android FAQ](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/msal/android/frequently-asked-questions) for more information on common redirect uri issues.

### Step 4: Create an MSAL PublicClientApplication

For browser-delegated authentication, you'll need to create an instance of the PublicClientApplication, before you can acquire a token silently or interactively. Please proceed to the official MSAL Android documentation on how to [instantiate your client application and acquire tokens](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/msal/android/acquire-tokens).

> For a native authentication experience, you optionally complete [additional logging configuration](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/external-id/customers/tutorial-native-authentication-prepare-android-app?branch=release-native-auth-public-preview#create-sdk-instance), and proceed to creating an instance of the client application using the configuration we created in [Step 2](README.md#step-2-create-your-msal-configuration-file). Learn more by following the [Native auth Android app tutorial](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/external-id/customers/tutorial-native-authentication-prepare-android-app?branch=release-native-auth-public-preview#create-sdk-instance).

Reviewer 2: Logging is not specific to native auth. it can also be configured for browser-delegated flows. So that first sentence isn't really correct.

> For a native authentication experience, you optionally complete [additional logging configuration](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/external-id/customers/tutorial-native-authentication-prepare-android-app?branch=release-native-auth-public-preview#create-sdk-instance), and proceed to creating an instance of the client application using the configuration we created in [Step 2](README.md#step-2-create-your-msal-configuration-file). Learn more by following the [Native auth Android app tutorial](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/external-id/customers/tutorial-native-authentication-prepare-android-app?branch=release-native-auth-public-preview#create-sdk-instance).

Reviewer 2: I think this section would benefit from sample code as well. It's not clear that the sentence "and proceed to creating an instance of the client application using the configuration we created in [Step 2]" means code like such:
``` 
authClient = PublicClientApplication.createNativeAuthPublicClientApplication( 
    this, 
    R.raw.auth_config_native_auth 
) 
```
The same goes for the browser-delegated version.

Author: Good call-out @SammyO . I've reworked this section

    </activity>
```

>NOTE: Please refer to the [MSAL Android FAQ](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/msal/android/frequently-asked-questions) for more information on common redirect uri issues.

### Step 4: Create an MSAL PublicClientApplication

**Browser-delegated authentication**

For browser-delegated authentication, you create an instance of the PublicClientApplication, before you can acquire a token silently or interactively.

```java
PublicClientApplication.createMultipleAccountPublicClientApplication(getContext(),
    R.raw.msal_config,
    new IPublicClientApplication.IMultipleAccountApplicationCreatedListener() {
        @Override
        public void onCreated(IMultipleAccountPublicClientApplication application) {
            mMultipleAccountApp = application;

>         }

Reviewer 2: Missing closing `}`

    </activity>
```

>NOTE: Please refer to the [MSAL Android FAQ](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/msal/android/frequently-asked-questions) for more information on common redirect uri issues.

### Step 4: Create an MSAL PublicClientApplication

**Browser-delegated authentication**

For browser-delegated authentication, you create an instance of the PublicClientApplication, before you can acquire a token silently or interactively.

```java
PublicClientApplication.createMultipleAccountPublicClientApplication(getContext(),
    R.raw.msal_config,
    new IPublicClientApplication.IMultipleAccountApplicationCreatedListener() {
        @Override
        public void onCreated(IMultipleAccountPublicClientApplication application) {
            mMultipleAccountApp = application;
        }

>    }

Reviewer 2: Missing closing `);`. @Dickson-Mwendia perhaps run this in Android Studio to see if it compiles.

Author: Good spot @SammyO. Tested and yes, it was missing the `);`
